contribute.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Contribute
permalink: /contribute/
published: true
---

We're always excited to have new contributors. Our community is diverse in
ages, cultures, and interests so we like to operate under the motto:

> If you have a creative idea or something you want bring to the table,
> just do it ;-)

However, it can also be good to check-in if you're new and unsure about things.
Please read our [code of conduct](/code-of-conduct/) and take a moment to
consider how you can best contribute to Open Source Design.

### Website

Website and all public facing web content that does have it's own repository

- [Edit Content](https://edit.opensourcedesign.net) on this website
- [Website Development](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.net) if you're handy with HTML, CSS, JS, and Jekyll

### Jobs

Jobs submitted to Open Source Design which end up on the public job board

- [Browse Design Jobs](http://opensourcedesign.net/jobs) if have some free cycles for paid or gratis work
- [Submit a Job](https://opensourcedesign.net/jobs/job-form/) if you need a designer for your project

### Events

Events that are relevant and relate to design and open source and design

- [Browse Events](http://opensourcedesign.net/events) to attend something near you
- [Add an Event](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io/tree/master/_events) to help organize new events

### Organization

Activities related to people interested in growing, developing, and working
within the OSD community.

- [Participate in OSD](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/organization) as an organization and community

### Experimental

Our other GitHub repositories are experimental and undecided exactly what
to best do. Among those are:

- [Logos](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/logos) - a collection of remixes.
- [Fonts](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/fonts) - some highlights of nice FOSS licensed friendly fonts.
- [Icons](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/icons) - original creations and works-in-progress.
- [Patterns](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/patterns) - of common UX patterns in open and proprietary software.

Commit message:

Adding section on financial contribs
Explaining what organisations we don't accept contribs from. Just a starter.

contribute.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Contribute
permalink: /contribute/
published: true
---

We're always excited to have new contributors. Our community is diverse in
ages, cultures, and interests so we like to operate under the motto:

> If you have a creative idea or something you want bring to the table,
> just do it ;-)

However, it can also be good to check-in if you're new and unsure about things.
Please read our [code of conduct](/code-of-conduct/) and take a moment to
consider how you can best contribute to Open Source Design.

### Website

Website and all public facing web content that does have it's own repository

- [Edit Content](https://edit.opensourcedesign.net) on this website
- [Website Development](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.net) if you're handy with HTML, CSS, JS, and Jekyll

### Jobs

Jobs submitted to Open Source Design which end up on the public job board

- [Browse Design Jobs](http://opensourcedesign.net/jobs) if have some free cycles for paid or gratis work
- [Submit a Job](https://opensourcedesign.net/jobs/job-form/) if you need a designer for your project

### Events

Events that are relevant and relate to design and open source and design

- [Browse Events](http://opensourcedesign.net/events) to attend something near you
- [Add an Event](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io/tree/master/_events) to help organize new events

### Organization

Activities related to people interested in growing, developing, and working
within the OSD community.

- [Participate in OSD](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/organization) as an organization and community

### Financial contributions

We also accept financial contributions via our [Open Collective account](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign). We have a number [recurring and once-off ways to contribute](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/contribute). Choose which is best for you.

We don't accept Open Collective contributions from organisations involved in: Casino & Gambling, Pharmacy Products (Weight loss, anti-aging), and SEO services & social media buying.

### Experimental

Our other GitHub repositories are experimental and undecided exactly what
to best do. Among those are:

- [Logos](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/logos) - a collection of remixes.
- [Fonts](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/fonts) - some highlights of nice FOSS licensed friendly fonts.
- [Icons](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/icons) - original creations and works-in-progress.
- [Patterns](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/patterns) - of common UX patterns in open and proprietary software.
