faq.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Frequently Asked Questions
permalink: /faq/
---

If you have questions relating to Open Source Design that **are not mentioned 
below** please [open an issue][issues-org].

### What Does Involvement In OSD Mean

It means whatever you want it to mean. You can design, code, blog, give design 
feedback, help fundraise, you name it- we would love your contributions. Check
out our [contribute page](/contribute/)

### What Does Being a Member Mean

Open Source Design offers a "choose-your-own" style of membership, it means you
are welcome to chill in our [chat room][chat], [browse](/jobs/) or submit
[design jobs][issues-jobs] for open source projects, help shape our
[organization][repo-organization], and [attend](/events/) or [add your
own][issues-events] design events.

### Who Can Join

Anyone can join. Ideally, we want people who contribute something, even if that
means just leaving comments on various issues, as long as they're helpful and
nice, we welcome you :)

### Do You Care About Free Software

Absolutely. Free software is incredibly important to many of founders and core
contributors and founders of OSD and many of us use only free software daily.
Many of us have dedicated our lives to working exclusively on free software.
While we are aware of the definitions of ["open source" and "free
software"][gnu-fs-os], Open Source Design as a community, is not assigning a
political stance to our word choice and it's inherant semantic debate as per the
Free Software Foundation asks people to "choose a side". That said, many of us
agree with the FSF's principles.

### Why "Open Source" not "Free Software"

Our name choice was never an intentional decision or discussion. In our earliest
organizing we just started intuitively *using* our name (Open Source Design) and
it stuck. The reasons we feel good about this choice are:

1. The Free as in beer / freedom confusion
2. Free software is older and has a specific community, culture, and goals
3. Open source is a newer term and (can) have broader goals
4. Acronyms (FOSS, FLOSS) are not user friendly
5. Spelling out said acronyms is also not designer / user friendly
6. Open source has done a better job at outreach and has broader public
   understanding
7. Open source as a concept extends beyond software yet can overlap with design

[gnu-fs-os]: https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html ""
[chat]: http://chat.opensourcedesign.net "Open Source Design Chat"
[repo-org]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/organization "Organization Repo"
[issues-website]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io/issues "Website Issue Tracker"
[issues-jobs]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/jobs/issues "Jobs Issue Tracker"
[issues-events]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/events/issues "Events Issue Tracker"

Commit message:

moved old stuff from README to FAQ updated README with dev notes

faq.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Frequently Asked Questions
permalink: /faq/
---

If you have questions relating to Open Source Design that **are not mentioned 
below** please [open an issue][issues-org].

### What Does Involvement In OSD Mean

It means whatever you want it to mean. You can design, code, blog, give design 
feedback, help fundraise, you name it- we would love your contributions. Check
out our [contribute page](/contribute/)

### What Does Being a Member Mean

Open Source Design offers a "choose-your-own" style of membership, it means you
are welcome to chill in our [chat room][chat], [browse](/jobs/) or submit
[design jobs][issues-jobs] for open source projects, help shape our
[organization][repo-organization], and [attend](/events/) or [add your
own][issues-events] design events.

### Who Can Join

Anyone can join. Ideally, we want people who contribute something, even if that
means just leaving comments on various issues, as long as they're helpful and
nice, we welcome you :)

### Do You Care About Free Software

Absolutely. Free software is incredibly important to many of founders and core
contributors and founders of OSD and many of us use only free software daily.
Many of us have dedicated our lives to working exclusively on free software.
While we are aware of the definitions of ["open source" and "free
software"][gnu-fs-os], Open Source Design as a community, is not assigning a
political stance to our word choice and it's inherant semantic debate as per the
Free Software Foundation asks people to "choose a side". That said, many of us
agree with the FSF's principles.

### Why "Open Source" not "Free Software"

Our name choice was never an intentional decision or discussion. In our earliest
organizing we just started intuitively *using* our name (Open Source Design) and
it stuck. The reasons we feel good about this choice are:

1. The Free as in beer / freedom confusion
2. Free software is older and has a specific community, culture, and goals
3. Open source is a newer term and (can) have broader goals
4. Acronyms (FOSS, FLOSS) are not user friendly
5. Spelling out said acronyms is also not designer / user friendly
6. Open source has done a better job at outreach and has broader public
   understanding
7. Open source as a concept extends beyond software

### How are you different from Open Design

There is a community called [Open Design](http://opendesign.foundation) that
sometimes gets confused as us. From [this conversation](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/resources/issues/14) our
differences are:

> Open Source Design is building a community of designers working on open
> source, while Open Design is focusing on building open workflows for
> designers.  Open Design is not building tools for the sake of building tools,
> but to build a community of designers working towards more open practices. 

Open Design targets the wider design community, while Open Source Design targets
getting more people (including designers) involved in designing for Open Source
Software. This image by [GarthDB](http://garthdb.com) does a good job of
explaining:

![differences](/images/osd-vs-od.png)

###  Why are you using IRC

We've talked a lot of the benefits of each chat tool out there. Ultimately it
comes down to a split in "open" versus "practical". We're still trying to figure
out what the best tool is for our community, but we're [working on
it](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/slick) and also see [this conversation](https://github.com/DesignOpen/designopen.github.io/issues/195).

[gnu-fs-os]: https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html ""
[chat]: http://chat.opensourcedesign.net "Open Source Design Chat"
[repo-org]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/organization "Organization Repo"
[issues-website]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io/issues "Website Issue Tracker"
[issues-jobs]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/jobs/issues "Jobs Issue Tracker"
[issues-events]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/events/issues "Events Issue Tracker"
