README.md, before:

# [opensourcedesign.net](https://opensourcedesign.net)

Website of the Open Source Design community, hosted on GitHub Pages.

[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/backers/badge.svg)](#backers) [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors) [![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/opensrcdesign?style=social)](https://twitter.com/opensrcdesign)  [![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-5b5bbd?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io)

## Edit Website

Editing content on [opensourcedesign.net][osd-net] can be done in 3 ways, all of which require a GitHub account.

1. Using GitHub's nifty file editor, which is quick but limited:

    ![](images/github-file-tools.png)

2. [Using Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io) which gives you a preconfigured IDE and live preview. This is quick and you can see your changes:

    ![](images/gitpod.png)

3. Setting the website up locally, which is more technical.

## Code & Design The Website

You need some basic ability to use a terminal as well as some knowledge of web
development like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The site is built with the following
programming tools:

- [Jekyll][jekyll]
- [Bootstrap][bootstrap]

### Installing

This step requires having a `ruby` development environment and `git` installed
and configured to connect to GitHub with SSH.

- [Installing Ruby][installing-ruby]
- [Using GitHub with SSH][github-ssh]

1. Install Jekyll using and other Ruby gems. Find out more on https://jekyllrb.com/docs/
   
> e.g. Jekyll requires the following:
Ruby version 2.5.0 or higher
RubyGems
GCC and Make

```sh
sudo gem install bundler
```

2. Fork and clone the main website repository

```sh
git clone --single-branch --branch master https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io.git
cd opensourcedesign.github.io/
bundle install
```

3. Clone the jobs repository

Currently the job board is still a separate repository, but [we plan to move it in here](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io/issues/236).

```sh
git clone https://github.com/opensourcedesign/jobs.git
```

4. Build the static site & watch for files

```sh
bundler exec jekyll serve --watch --config _config.yml,_config-dev.yml
```


[osd-net]: https://opensourcedesign.net
[osd-org]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/
[jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com
[bootstrap]: https://getbootstrap.com
[installing-ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/
[github-ssh]: https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/


## 👩‍🚀 Contributors, backers & sponsors

This project exists thanks to all the **people who contribute**.
<a href="graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>

Thank you to **all our backers**! 🙏 ([Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign#backer))

<a href="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/backers.svg?width=890"></a>

**Support this project by becoming a sponsor.** ([Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign#sponsor))

<a href="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>


## ♥ Code of Conduct

Please note that Open Source Design has a [Contributor Code of Conduct](https://opensourcedesign.net/code-of-conduct/). By participating in this project online or at events you agree to abide by its terms.


## 📜 License

**🔀 You can use & modify everything as long as you credit [Open Source Design](https://opensourcedesign.net) and use the same license for your resulting work.** [Code license is AGPLv3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html) and content is [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

Commit message:

NEW Updated README.md
This PR updates the README file to improve the setup instructions for new contributors to the Open Source Design website. The updates include:

Detailed steps for managing Ruby versions using rbenv, aimed at helping new contributors set up their development environments more efficiently.
An expanded prerequisites section that provides step-by-step guidance on installing necessary tools and dependencies. This aims to reduce setup time and potential configuration errors.
Additional context to help new contributors understand the importance of each step and how they fit into the overall development process.

README.md, after:

# [opensourcedesign.net](https://opensourcedesign.net)

Website of the Open Source Design community, hosted on GitHub Pages.

[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/backers/badge.svg)](#backers) [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors) [![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/opensrcdesign?style=social)](https://twitter.com/opensrcdesign)  [![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-5b5bbd?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io)

## Edit Website

Editing content on [opensourcedesign.net][osd-net] can be done in 3 ways, all of which require a GitHub account.

1. Using GitHub's nifty file editor, which is quick but limited:

    ![](images/github-file-tools.png)

2. [Using Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io) which gives you a preconfigured IDE and live preview. This is quick and you can see your changes:

    ![](images/gitpod.png)

3. Setting the website up locally, which is more technical.

## Code & Design The Website

To contribute to the website, you'll need some basic terminal skills and knowledge of web development technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The site is built with the following tools:

- [Jekyll][jekyll]
- [Bootstrap][bootstrap]

### Installing

Before you begin, ensure you have a `Ruby` development environment and `Git` installed and configured to connect to GitHub with SSH.

#### Prerequisites

- **Ruby**: Jekyll requires Ruby version 2.5.0 or higher.
- **RubyGems**: Ruby package manager.
- **GCC and Make**: Essential for compiling native extensions.

You can install these dependencies using the following guides:

- [Installing Ruby][installing-ruby]
- [Using GitHub with SSH][github-ssh]

#### Installation Steps

1. **Install Bundler and Jekyll**

First, install Bundler, which manages Ruby dependencies:

```sh
sudo gem install bundler
```

2. Fork and clone the main website repository

```sh
git clone --single-branch --branch master https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io.git
cd opensourcedesign.github.io/
bundle install
```

3. Clone the jobs repository

Currently the job board is still a separate repository, but [we plan to move it in here](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.github.io/issues/236).

```sh
git clone https://github.com/opensourcedesign/jobs.git
```

4. Build the static site & watch for files

```sh
bundler exec jekyll serve --watch --config _config.yml,_config-dev.yml
```


[osd-net]: https://opensourcedesign.net
[osd-org]: https://github.com/opensourcedesign/
[jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com
[bootstrap]: https://getbootstrap.com
[installing-ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/
[github-ssh]: https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/


## 👩‍🚀 Contributors, backers & sponsors

This project exists thanks to all the **people who contribute**.
<a href="graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>

Thank you to **all our backers**! 🙏 ([Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign#backer))

<a href="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/backers.svg?width=890"></a>

**Support this project by becoming a sponsor.** ([Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign#sponsor))

<a href="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/opensourcedesign/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>


## ♥ Code of Conduct

Please note that Open Source Design has a [Contributor Code of Conduct](https://opensourcedesign.net/code-of-conduct/). By participating in this project online or at events you agree to abide by its terms.


## 📜 License

**🔀 You can use & modify everything as long as you credit [Open Source Design](https://opensourcedesign.net) and use the same license for your resulting work.** [Code license is AGPLv3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html) and content is [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
