---
_id: 0880dac0-59f6-11e9-9ce8-4922cfe39b3e
status: closed
date_posted: '2019-04-08'
layout: jobs
organization: Codeuino
org_url: 'http://codeuino.org'
title: Mockups Designs for Social platform
role: UI/UX mockups designing
compensation: gratis
deliverables: >-
  Unique design for Feeds page, dashboard, project displayed page, general
  landing page.
how_to_apply:
  - >-
    Jaskirat Singh (juskirat2000@gmail.com) and community support at
    support@codeuino.org
  - 'https://github.com/codeuino/Social-Platform-Donut'
tags: 'Mockups, UI/UX, Social Platform, Open Source'
date: '2019-04-08T12:01:25.571Z'
---
Codeuino which is a volunteer-driven non-profit open source Social networking organisation that provides various robust frameworks solutions which could span the entire world through building all kinds of social environments, discussion portals and collaboration platforms, giving prospectus to various other organisations, users and outreachers to use social media in a custom way. DONUT is a major member project of codeuino which is an open source social networking platform like Facebook which allow individual users and organisations to setup their own social platform along with multi integrated system.

You can find about the project here https://github.com/codeuino/Social-Platform-Donut

We are being run by a large community on slack, here is the link ( www.slack.codeuino.org )

What we need to have is we currently have some Mockups displayed on our github Repo but we have planned to change since we are developing new modules so that would required new UI.

So we need to have a good looking "Feeds Page" what we see in facebook but this page should not be exactly similar to facebook, linkedin feedspage. We need to have a unique layout.
Along with this Dashboard mockup is required. There exist 2 dashboards that is one for community and other for individual users. So new and different design for both.
