---
_id: 55deb6f0-7c4c-11eb-b15f-2bf6f5051ab6
status: closed
date_posted: '2021-03-03'
layout: jobs
organization: 'Healthcare Design for Patients, Clinicians, and Policy'
org_url: 'https://www.goinvo.com'
title: Healthcare Designer
role: 'Software design, healthcare, making information beautiful'
compensation: paid
deliverables: ''
how_to_apply:
  - juhan@goinvo.com
  - "goinvo.com\r\nopensourcehealthcare.org\r\n"
github_handle: ''
tags: 'health, healthcare, design, software, digital'
date: '2021-03-03T18:14:46.598Z'
---
We’re looking for a designer and an engineer to join our intimate studio.

If you’re familiar with our work, you know we design, build, and ship beautiful health software for companies of all sizes, like Apple, Johnson & Johnson, NIH (National Institutes of Health), and Walgreens, to micro startups. We are hyper-concerned about guiding people through tough decisions, and produce eyebrow-raising results.

Our idealized candidate can be described in this way:

First and foremost, you need to be exceptional:
loving to design and build software, making is in your DNA, solving crazy problems with 50 different crazy solutions. You need to have a proven track record of designing healthcare software that has shipped.

Second, you need to be a system thinker and serial do’er:
to see more than just the design and production tasks but the entire product ecosystem, to having a firm grasp of engineering principles and business practices. You will need to lead not just yourself but other studio’ites and clients. Your responsibilities include leading projects and, over time, learning how to manage the entire service to designing software that is destined to ship. You will not be a cog in a machine. Your ideas will directly shape the experiences you create. Ultimately, you will be your own business unit within the studio and grappling with the holy trinity: design, technology, and business.

Third, you have to really care about Design, your fellow staff, and Spaceship Earth:
being adrenalized about healthcare, business, writing, open source, innovation, craftsmanship, fun. You are given great freedom and responsibility for managing your own work program to mentoring staff to driving company goals. Taking pride in and feeling responsible for a high degree of personal ownership in your work is critical because thousands to millions of people will immediately interact with your finished designs. We are looking for a passionate, inspiring, design-obsessed apostle who can increase our IQs (as well as dramatically increase your own).

That’s the kind of person we want. If you have those three qualities, just about anything else is negotiable.

If you have any questions about the position, please email me.

You can apply below, or send me your resume, portfolio, and phone number so we can chat.

Looking forward,
Juhan Sonin, Director
juhan@goinvo.com
