_events/2021-12-04-fosdem-cfp-2022.md, before:

---
layout: event
title: "FOSDEM Call for Proposals 2022"
date: 2021-12-04
categories: design conference open-source
eventDate: Saturday 5th and Sunday 6th February 2022 
location: Online, Remote via FOSDEM
time: 1 day
status: upcoming
permalink: /2021/12/04/fosdem-cfp-2022
---

FOSDEM is a free event for software developers to meet, share ideas and collaborate. This includes the community of designers working across design methods and practices in free and open source software.
Every year, thousands of developers of free and open source software from all over the world gather at the event in Brussels. In 2022 the event will be online as it was in 2021 due to the ongoing pandemic.

[FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org/2022/) is an open source conference where communities apply for rooms to curate talks in. We have for the last 6+ years curated a dev room called 'Open Source Design'.
[See the talks from Open Source Design dev room 2021 here](https://archive.fosdem.org/2021/schedule/track/open_source_design/)

The Open Source Design devroom showcases design work happening within free and open source projects, because yes, there is design alive in FOSS. 
We mean "design" in a broad sense, and we include within that term typography, graphic design, interaction design, user experience, human-computer interaction, accessibility, information architecture, content strategy, service design, design research and <add your favourite buzzword here>. 
We hope to see you there.
  
We now have our devroom to curate we invite our wide design community to submit their talks. We have 1 full day of the conference on Saturday the 5th of February (we will not have any talks on the Sunday 6th of February)
The event will be online and all presentations will be pre-recorded, but you are required to be online and present during your presentation and for 5-10 minutes after to answer any questions the audience watching your talk may have. 
To submit your talk you will need to create a pentabarf account (if you do not already have one) and make the submission through the [FOSDEM pentabarf system](https://penta.fosdem.org/submission/). Pentabarf is the official name of the FOSDEM talk submission and management system ([see beginner’s guide](https://medium.com/@maartjeme/beginners-guide-to-pentabarf-78808a1ce5bf)).
When prompted to select 'Track' be sure to select 'Open Source Design' devroom otherwise we will not recieve your submission.
  
### A idea of the types of talks Open Source Design are looking for:

* How you have contributed as a designer to OSS and your experiences
* What OSS can do to include designers in their OSS
* Show design work, methods, examples and guides
* Inclusion, diversity, mentoring and governance of OSS from a design perspective
* Anything else related to design and OSS!
  
### Requirements
To be able to submit a talk you must fulfil these formal requirements:

You should target a talk duration of 20 minutes with 5 mins of Q&A (leaves us with 5 mins change over for talks). 
We are also open to durations up to 40 minutes with 5 mins of Q&A for talks with a bigger scope, but we would encourage sticking to 20 minute durations. 
Be able to pre-record a talk in advance. In order for us to check over the recording all videos must be submitted by January 22nd 2022.
Since FOSDEM is held during European (CET timezone) day hours you need to be available during the day on the 5th of February for your presentation and the ensuing Q&A.

### Important Dates and Deadlines
  
Submission of talk proposal: Dec 23rd, 2021
Selected talks announced: Dec 31st 2021
After all talks are rated, we will inform you about the status of your submission starting Mid-December.
Video recording submission: January 22nd
Conference dates 5 & 6 February. 
Open Source Design will be programed on **Saturday the 5th February 2022 only**.
All deadline times are 23:59 UTC.

### Additional support
Make sure to check out the FOSDEM Code of Conduct.
For any questions about this call for participation you can reach out to us in the [Open Source Design discourse forum](https://discourse.opensourcedesign.net/) or [via email](core@opensourcedesign.net)
If you are accepted you will be paired with an Open Source Design volunteer to help prompt you to meet deadlines and also check over your recording. They will also be there on the day to faiclitate your 5 mins Q&A.

Commit message:

modifying dates and fixing some typos

_events/2021-12-04-fosdem-cfp-2022.md, after:

---
layout: event
title: "Call for Participation: Open Source Design Devroom at FOSDEM 2022"
date: 2021-12-04
categories: design conference open-source
eventDate: Saturday 5th February 2022 
location: Online, Remote via FOSDEM website
time: 1 day
status: upcoming
permalink: /2021/12/04/fosdem-cfp-2022
---

FOSDEM is a free event for software developers to meet, share ideas and collaborate. This includes the community of designers working across design methods and practices in free and open source software.
Every year, thousands of developers of free and open source software from all over the world gather at the event in Brussels. In 2022 the event will be online as it was in 2021 due to the ongoing pandemic.

[FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org/2022/) is an open source conference where communities apply for rooms to curate talks in. We have for the last 6+ years curated a dev room called 'Open Source Design'.
[See the talks from Open Source Design dev room 2021 here](https://archive.fosdem.org/2021/schedule/track/open_source_design/)

The Open Source Design devroom showcases design work happening within free and open source projects, because yes, there is design alive in FOSS. 
We mean "design" in a broad sense, and we include within that term typography, graphic design, interaction design, user experience, human-computer interaction, accessibility, information architecture, content strategy, service design, design research and <add your favourite buzzword here>. 
We hope to see you there.
  
We now have our devroom to curate we invite our wide design community to submit their talks. We have 1 full day of the conference on Saturday the 5th of February.

The event will be online and all presentations will be pre-recorded, but you are required to be online and present during your presentation and for 5-10 minutes after to answer any questions the audience watching your talk may have.
To submit your talk you will need to create a pentabarf account (if you do not already have one) and make the submission through the [FOSDEM pentabarf system](https://penta.fosdem.org/submission/). Pentabarf is the official name of the FOSDEM talk submission and management system ([see beginner’s guide](https://medium.com/@maartjeme/beginners-guide-to-pentabarf-78808a1ce5bf)).
When prompted to select 'Track' be sure to select 'Open Source Design' devroom otherwise we will not recieve your submission.
  
### A idea of the types of talks Open Source Design are looking for:

* How you have contributed as a designer to OSS and your experiences
* What OSS can do to include designers in their OSS
* Show design work, methods, examples and guides
* Inclusion, diversity, mentoring and governance of OSS from a design perspective
* Anything else related to design and OSS!
  
### Requirements
To be able to submit a talk you must fulfil these formal requirements:

You should target a talk duration of 20 minutes with 5 mins of Q&A (leaves us with 5 mins change over for talks). 
We are also open to durations up to 40 minutes with 5 mins of Q&A for talks with a bigger scope, but we would encourage sticking to 20 minute durations. 
Be able to pre-record a talk in advance. In order for us to check over the recording all videos must be submitted by January 22nd 2022.
Since FOSDEM is held during European (CET timezone) day hours you need to be available during the day on the 5th of February for your presentation and the ensuing Q&A.

### Important Dates and Deadlines
  
Submission deadline for talk proposal: December 23rd 2021
Selected talks announced: December 31st 2021
After all talks are rated, we will inform you about the status of your submission starting Mid-December.
Video recording submission: January 22nd 2022
Open Source Design will be programed on **Saturday the 5th February 2022**.
All deadline times are 23:59 UTC.

### Additional support
Make sure to check out the FOSDEM Code of Conduct.
For any questions about this call for participation you can reach out to us in the [Open Source Design discourse forum](https://discourse.opensourcedesign.net/) or [via email](core@opensourcedesign.net)
If you are accepted you will be paired with an Open Source Design volunteer to help prompt you to meet deadlines and also check over your recording. They will also be there on the day to facilitate your 5 mins Q&A.
