---
layout: post
date: 2015-07-10-20-00
title: "This Month in Open Source Design - June (and some bits of July and May)"
category: monthly-update
authors:
  - simonv3
  - gillisig
  - garthdb
redirect_from: /monthly-update/2015/07/10/this-month-in-open-source-design.html
permalink: /2015/07/10/this-month-in-open-source-design
---

# In IRC

We talked about (or what some members of our community have been up to):

- Merging some repos together. Ultimately that didn't get very far, but people have been more careful with creating new repos. [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-05-18/?msg=39486383&page=2)]
- Design of the main website for wireframews [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-05-18/?msg=39486383&page=2)].
- The woes of doing design for open source developers [[irc](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.net/issues/18)]
- The woes of job titles and unicorns [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-05-23/?msg=39967391&page=1)]
- Onboarding in Slick [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-05-23/?msg=39984519&page=2)], and general conversations about Slick. There's a lot of enthusiasm around it.
- Offline-first apps and hoodie [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-05-25/?msg=40069142&page=1)]
- Talky [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-06-02/?msg=40760040&page=1)]
- Kosmos [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-06-08/?msg=41247099&page=1)]
- The state of tutorials for design [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-06-08/?msg=41268491&page=2)]
- We talked a whole lot about how democracy is hard [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-06-10/?msg=41469276&page=1)]
- Some more thoughts on IRC and chat programs [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-06-11/?msg=41584415&page=1)]
- Etherpad [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-06-11/?msg=41584415&page=1)]
- A code of conduct [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-06-11/?msg=41584415&page=1)]
- Funding open source [[irc](https://botbot.me/freenode/opensourcedesign/2015-07-03/?msg=43599602&page=1)]
- P2P file back up systems[[irc](http://opensourcedesign.net/events/design/hack/meeting/2015/02/01/opensourcedesign-fosdem.html)]

# On GitHub

- Jan D. started a conversation about [Free-as-in-freedom tools for Designer Dev communication and creation](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/resources/issues/16). This resulted in a [blog post on it](http://opensourcedesign.net/2015/05/23/text-based-tools-for-designers).
- We started [wireframing the website](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.net/issues/17) with some concepts.
- This led to a [conversation about logos](https://github.com/opensourcedesign/opensourcedesign.net/issues/18)!
- Our [code of conduct](//opensourcedesign.net/code-of-conduct/) is up for discussion.

# Events

- We're planning for [FOSDEM 2016](http://opensourcedesign.net/events/design/hack/meeting/2015/02/01/opensourcedesign-fosdem.html)

<br>
<br>

NOTE: _26.3.2017_: Updated link to [post on tools for designers](http://opensourcedesign.net/2015/05/23/text-based-tools-for-designers)
