---
layout: event
title: "Talk on Design-driven Free Software at SFScon Bolzano 2017"
date: 2017-11-10
categories: talk
eventDate: November 10th, 2017
location: NOI Techpark, Bolzano (Italy)
time: 12:30
status: past
permalink: /2017/11/10/sfscon-2017
---

[SFSCon](https://www.sfscon.it) (South Tyrol Free Software Conference) is one of Europe’s most established annual conferences on Free Software. SFScon promotes the use of Free Software in IT infrastructures as a tool to achieve greater innovation and competitiveness in the region. Here decision-makers and developers meet, learn and get inspired.

### Date and Location

**Date**: November 10th, 2017
**Location**: NOI Techpark, Bolzano (Italy)

### Talk: Design-driven free software

#### Descripion

The free software movement has come a long way since the 1980s, but so far, it has failed to achieve its primary goal: Most people still use proprietary software and services for everyday computing tasks. One reason for this is that free software applications are difficult to use because they are built by developers for developers.
Over the last two decades, there have been many attempts at improving free software usability and getting more designers involved. However, only a handful of projects have managed to do this in a way where it meaningfully improved the user experience. GNOME and elementary are two of the most prominent projects that have done this successfully and are therefore good case studies to learn from.
I will talk about the history of how these projects came to be design-driven, how they integrated design into the free software development process, and how your project can do the same.

#### About the speaker

Tobias Bernard is an interaction designer living in Berlin. Originally from Merano, he got his BSc in Computer Science at the University of Bolzano and is currently studying Human-Computer Interaction and Design at TU Berlin. He’s part of the GNOME design team and member of the Open Source Design community.
